[MUSIC]
There are, as it turns out,
multiple ways to do so.
The first one is specific to this UCB.
First, in general, you don't need
to get the whole distribution.
You only need to know it's percentile.
And you might have to compromise
a little bit in the way that you don't
know the exact value, but
you only know it for some inequality.
Turns out, in statistics, there is more
than one way you can compute that.
There are inequalities like
the counting inequality,
also known as Chernoff inequality.
Or or there's going to be
like five more of them.
That all compute something like the
previnsi of some particular value being
more than some particular threshold.
The case that this particular rate
regardless of the distribution.
Or what as in the housing case
regardless of a distribution shape
as long as the possible value of this
action q value is between 0 and 1.
In this case the formula on the slide is
a simplified version of the Hoeffding
inequality here.
You can easily find the full
version if you just Wikipedia it.
But the essence here is that the
probability of your action value, q-value,
being larger than the average q-value
you've measured so far by more than t.
Which is a value of say plus 5.
Would decay as exponent to the power
of -2 times number of samples,
number of times you've measured
this q-value, times t squared.
So if your t is equal to 5,
and say your q-value,
your average q-value is 10,
and t is equal to 5.
The [INAUDIBLE] of your q-value
being larger than 15 is
exponent of -2 times n times 25.
And n might be some 1,000.
Which is kind of really, really small
number but they are non 01 nevertheless.
What you want to do with this inequality
is you want to solve it not for
the probability, but for
t, for this offset here.
You want to find such an offset, such
a difference between expected value and
your action value, q-value.
Such that the probability of being
above this offset is greater,
okay lesser or equal than 5%.
Or another chance probability of being
within this offset, so less or equal,
is at least 95%.
This would be some estimate
of the percentile wanted,
all by it is an inequality so
it might be a less efficient one.
If you solved this thing for t, plugging
in some probablilty that you want,
say you want to be 99% sure
that you are within this range.
Then your solution is going
to look something like this.
Of course there can be a coefficient
here between the square root.
Which depends on the probability,
the certainty you want to get.
And if you want to be 90% it
would be less than 1 here, and
if you want to be 9.99999% sure it will
be, say, maybe 10 times, 100 times more.
But the general idea looks like this.
You take the amount of times you've
picked this action in a state.
And you take the amount of times
you've ever been to the state and
picked any action,
regardless of which one.
And then you plug them in
this square root thing here.
So you take the logarithm over time,
over a number of times,
you've been to the state.
Divided by times you've picked
this action in the state,
multiplied by two square root,
you know all that stuff.
And this is how far you get
from the expected value.
So the final and if priority of action
is a sum of this exponent value and
the addition from the UCB,
from the upper confidence bound.
Now, let's see how this formula works.
Let's plug in some numbers.
For starters lets say that we
have never picked an action.
There's new action that we have not yet
picked.
And I want you to tell me how
inched are we in this action.
What's the odds that
we're going to pick it.
Yes, we're actually really interested.
And unless there is some other action
we should also pick zero times.
The action which has not yet
been picked will be the top priority.
Because if na is equal to 0 the number
times it picked this action,
then the priority of this v-hat
kind of gets set to infinity.
And it means that we are dead
sure when we pick this action.
It might be optimal so
we might just well try it now.
Again, this is kind of
reasonable to expect,
we want to try all
the extras at least once.
And then figure out which of them
do we want to continue trying.
But let's see what happens as we
convert to a larger number of na and N.
Let's say we have one state and
three actions.
And for this state we've been
there say three million times.
And each action we've been picking,
we've picked one million times, exactly.
So N equals 1 million.
Okay, sorry, 3 million.
And na equals 1 million.
What's going to be the v-hat here?
Well yes, it turns out the v-hat is
going to be very close to the expectation,
and it's going to get even closer as the N
and na increase towards the infinity.
The infinity it will get, exactly, it will
convert exactly into the expected value.
Because algorithm of some value
divided by this value itself, or
something proportional to it,
it's going to convert to zero.
Okay, so
this is how it's going to be explained.
And again, it makes some sense because
after you've explored everything countless
times, it doesn't really matter,.
The exploration value
doesn't really matter.
You know everything perfectly.
So you can just as well exploit it.
This is the kind of approach
to computing the upper bound.
This actually practically means that you
have to store for each state and for
each action how many times
have you picked this action.
And how many times have
you been to this state.
And it's, well, just three times as
many parameters if you are using 3 times
plus 2 times plus 1, many parameters
compared to standard q learning.
And it's kind of bearable
in a terrible case.
If you're not using a table, if you're
using some kind of approximations.
You'll also have to approximate
the densities of the state and
the action being picked in the state for
some parametric functions.
But that's going to be covered in
a reading section in much more detail.
So this is of course one thing
we've derived from [INAUDIBLE] or
turn off inequality, but
you can find your own modified formula.
Which would work for
any other inequality of your preference,
and it might be better.
[INAUDIBLE] hears that
those are all inequalities,
so they are upper bounds
of how we are interested.
Okay, sorry.
Lower bounds of how we're interested.
So if something says to you, if UCB-1
says to you that you should explore,
then it might be that you really should.
But it might be that just overestimate
the value of this action.
Because It doesn't know anything
about the distribution beforehand.
And again for this particular
inequality we assume that it is over-
[MUSIC]